Add documentation for tedee integration (#30554)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/tedee.markdown

---

> title: tedee

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Tedee
```

This needs to be adjusted / matched in Core too.

Author: The name should be upper case in core (like any other integration) but the manufacturer name on the device information is lower case (like in reality)

Author: matching this in core https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/106685

description: Instructions on how to integrate your Tedee lock with Home Assistant.

> ha_release: 2024.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2024.2
```

ha_category:
  - Lock
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: tedee
ha_platforms:
  - lock
ha_codeowners:
  - '@zweckj'
  - '@patrickhilker'
ha_integration_type: integration
---

> This integration interacts with your [tedee](https://tedee.com) locks, by communicating with the tedee bridge through HTTP. **The bridge is a requirement for adding your locks through this integration.**
> The integration will communicate with your lock locally, so you need to have the local API enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration interacts with your [Tedee](https://tedee.com) locks by communicating with the Tedee bridge through HTTP. The integration will communicate with your lock locally.

## Pre-requisites

- You will need the bridge for adding your locks using this integration.
- You need to have the local API enabled.
```

Author: tedee as brand is all lowercase

Reviewer: That was my first thought too... however, that seems to be mostly logo, not textual.

From their own homepage: <https://tedee.com/>

![CleanShot 2023-12-29 at 18 29 37@2x](https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/assets/195327/8068d799-7333-4855-b0b3-e249087b44ba)

![CleanShot 2023-12-29 at 18 29 46@2x](https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/assets/195327/2419ae27-06bf-441d-a848-b116410397b5)

![CleanShot 2023-12-29 at 18 29 55@2x](https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/assets/195327/b3a08f7a-1caa-46bc-8c9e-a388beff61e9)

![CleanShot 2023-12-29 at 18 30 03@2x](https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/assets/195327/83ebd9fb-c3c4-499d-b8ec-66232d74b63a)

![CleanShot 2023-12-29 at 18 30 21@2x](https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/assets/195327/df905491-9e37-46b9-aa4b-4439c42e4308)

Author: Huh. The more you know. I was 100% sure they wrote it lowercase.

> If you do not own the bridge, you can still add your locks through the [HomeKit Integration](./_integrations/homekit.markdown) to Home Assistant, but communication will happen over Bluetooth in that case and features will be limited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not own the bridge, you can still add your locks to Home Assistant through the [HomeKit Integration](./_integrations/homekit.markdown). Still, communication will happen over Bluetooth in that case, and features will be limited.
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

{% configuration_basic %}
Host:

>   description: "The IP address of your bridge. You can find it in your router or in the tedee app under \"Bridge Settings\" -> \"Local API\"."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: "The IP address of your bridge. You can find it in your router or in the Tedee app under \"Bridge Settings\" -> \"Local API\"."
```

Author: Same as above

  required: false
  type: string
Local Access Token:

>   description: "The local access token for your bridge. You can find it in the tedee app under \"Bridge Settings\" -> \"Local API\"."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: "The local access token for your bridge. You can find it in the Tedee app under \"Bridge Settings\" -> \"Local API\"."
```

---
title: Tedee
description: Instructions on how to integrate your Tedee lock with Home Assistant.
ha_release: 2024.2
ha_category:

>   - Lock

Reviewer 2: sensor aswell

Author: damn forgot those, sorry

ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: tedee
ha_platforms:

>   - lock

Reviewer 2: sensor aswell

---
title: Tedee
description: Instructions on how to integrate your Tedee lock with Home Assistant.
ha_release: 2024.2
ha_category:
  - Binary sensor
  - Lock
  - Sensor
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: tedee
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - lock
  - sensor
ha_codeowners:
  - '@zweckj'
  - '@patrickhilker'
ha_integration_type: integration
---

This integration interacts with your [Tedee](https://tedee.com) locks by communicating with the Tedee bridge through HTTP. The integration will communicate with your lock locally.

## Pre-requisites

> - You will need the bridge for adding your locks using this integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You will need the bridge to add your locks using this integration.
```

- You need to have the local API enabled.

> If you do not own the bridge, you can still add your locks to Home Assistant through the [HomeKit Integration](./_integrations/homekit.markdown). Still, communication will happen over Bluetooth in that case, and features will be limited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not own the bridge, you can still add your locks to Home Assistant through the [HomeKit device integration](/integrations/homekit_controller.markdown). Communication will happen over Bluetooth in that case, and features will be limited.
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

{% configuration_basic %}
Host:

>   description: "The IP address of your bridge. You can find it in your router or in the Tedee app under \"Bridge Settings\" -> \"Local API\"."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: "The IP address of your bridge. You can find it in your router or in the Tedee app under **Bridge Settings** -> **Local API**.
```

  required: false
  type: string
Local Access Token:

>   description: "The local access token for your bridge. You can find it in the Tedee app under \"Bridge Settings\" -> \"Local API\"."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: "The local access token for your bridge. You can find it in the Tedee app under **Bridge Settings** -> **Local API**."
```

  required: false
  type: string
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

> ## Binary sensors
> We have three binary sensors: One that indicated whether the battery is currently charging, one indicating if pullspring is enabled and one indicating whether the lock is in a "semi locked" position, meaning the lock has been turned manually and is between its normal end positions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Binary sensors

We have three binary sensors: One that indicates whether the battery is currently charging, one indicating if the pull spring is enabled, and one indicating whether the lock is in a "semi-locked" position, meaning the lock has been turned manually and between its normal end positions.
```

> ## Sensors
> The integration currently offers two sensors: A battery sensor, indicated the charge of your lock and a "pullspring duration" sensor, indicating how long (in seconds) your latch will stay pulled after a pull operation (if supported). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sensors

The integration currently offers two sensors: A battery sensor, indicating the charge of your lock, and a "pull spring duration" sensor, indicating how long (in seconds) your latch will stay pulled after a pull operation (if supported). 
```

---
title: Tedee
description: Instructions on how to integrate your Tedee lock with Home Assistant.
ha_release: 2024.2
ha_category:
  - Binary sensor
  - Lock
  - Sensor
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: tedee
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - lock
  - sensor
ha_codeowners:
  - '@zweckj'
  - '@patrickhilker'
ha_integration_type: integration
---

This integration interacts with your [Tedee](https://tedee.com) locks by communicating with the Tedee bridge through HTTP. The integration will communicate with your lock locally.

## Pre-requisites

- You will need the bridge to add your locks using this integration.
- You need to have the local API enabled.

If you do not own the bridge, you can still add your locks to Home Assistant through the [HomeKit device integration](/integrations/homekit_controller.markdown). Communication will happen over Bluetooth in that case, and features will be limited.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

{% configuration_basic %}
Host:

>   description: "The IP address of your bridge. You can find it in your router or in the Tedee app under **Bridge Settings** -> **Local API**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: "The IP address of your bridge. You can find it in your router or in the Tedee app under **Bridge Settings** -> **Local API**."
```
